This repository contains Matlab functions for extracting meaningful dynamic features from human neural signals, in particular, resting-state EEG/MEG and fMRI signals. The scripts process neural signals given in the form of an N-by-T array, where N is the number of recording sites (can be EEG electrodes/MEG channels, MEG source vertices, fMRI voxels, or brain regions in a parcellation atlas), T is the number of time points in one session.

A few general rules of naming. Scripts that calculate features from time series are named as the full name of the features, for example, `power_spectrum.m`, `functional_connectivity.m`, etc. These features might be computed from a single time slice or by averaging the features across a running time window, and this repository also provides scripts to implement the latter, which are named with suffix `winavg`, for instance, `power_spectrum_winavg.m` calculates power spectrum of a relatively long time series by averaging spectra across sliding windows (the Welch's method, technically), `functional_connectivity_winavg.m` similarly averages functional connectivity across time windows. There are also scripts that return the features in each time window, ending with suffix `wins`, for example, `power_spectrum_wins.m` and `functional_connectivity_wins.m`. These scripts are typically used as `[OutArg1, OutArg2] = function_name(signal, time, fs, cfg)`, where `signal` is the time series data given as an N-by-T array, `time` is an 1-by-N vector of time points, `fs` is the sampling frequency of the time series, and `cfg` is a struct of configurations to be specified by users. Typical fields in `cfg` are the window size and step length for `_winavg` scripts, and method options like different correlation measures. Often, `OutArg1` is the main output (e.g., functional connectivity matrix, power spectra), and `OutArg2` is vector of the associated coordinates (e.g., frequency points for the spectra, while nothing for functional connectivity).

Next are the scripts to calculate other features from these primary features, named as `[abbreviation_of_primary_features]_[full_name_of_derived_features].m`, for example, `psd_power_law_exponent.m` estimates power-law exponent of given power spectral density (psd) data, and `fc_eigendecomp.m` performs eigen-decomposition on given functional connectivity (fc) matrix and returns the eigenvectors and eigenvalues. These scripts are typically used as `[OutArg] = function_name(primary_features, coordinates, cfg)`, where `primary_features` is an array of primary features like FC and PSD, `coordinates` is a vector of coordinates like frequency points for PSD, and `cfg` is a struct of configurations to be specified by users. Typical fields in `cfg` include the range of coordinates and parameters in the compuational steps. Additionally, there is a subfolder named `math_dependencies` that contains scripts to perform basic numerical steps like eigen-decomposition, spectral embeddings, etc., which are called by the scripts in the main folder. Users should run a script called `add_math_dependencies.m` to add `math_dependencies` to path. In one word, run this line to start: `addpath('main_dir\');  add_math_dependencies;`.

For theoretical foundations, mathematical formula, and key citations, please refer to the following document:
https://www.overleaf.com/read/mcyjmdkkxxzx#03155a

The repository also contains a script `example_usage.m` that demonstrates the calculation of power spectra and functional connectivity of a resting-state fMRI session data from the Human Connectome Project (HCP) (data file location: `data\example_data.m`), as well as a few features derived from the output PSD and FC. Some information about the data can be found in `example_usage.m`. You may notice the syntax and input formats, including the struct of configurations.

Contributors:
YANG Hao. PhD student, Center for Nonlinear Studies, Hong Kong Baptist University. Email: yang2025acad@gmail.com
